---
tags:
  - leetcode
  - heaps
  - heap
---

<a href="https://leetcode.com/problems/meeting-rooms-iii/">2402. Meeting Rooms
III</a>

We're given an array of meeting intervals, [start_i, end_i], and we have n
meetings rooms that can be allocated. Meetings will take place in the rooms with
the lowest number, and once a meeting starts in a room that room is no longer
available. If a meeting is scheduled to start and no rooms are available, the
meeting will be delayed and start when a room becomes available - retaining its
original duration.

To solve this, we use two min heaps - one for the vacant meeting rooms, and one
for tracking the occupied rooms and their end times. We sort the meetings by
start time, and iterate through them. For each iteration, while meetings in the
occupied heap are ending before the current meeting starts, we pop them off the
heap and push them to the vacancy list.

If a room is vacant, the current meeting can start at its scheduled time.
Otherwise, we pop a meeting from the occupied heap and make note of the end time
for this meeting. We push the current meeting onto the occupied heap with a new
end time, accounting for the delay and original duration. We keep track of the
room we updated, and add the number of meetings handled in this room to the
dictionary.

Finally, we return the room number for the room with the greatest number of
meetings.

The solution is as follows:

```python
from heapq import heappop, heappush

class Solution:
    def mostBooked(self, n: int, meetings: List[List[int]]) -> int:
        count = [0] * n
        vacant, occupied = list(range(n)), []
        meetings = sorted(meetings)

        for start, end in meetings:
            while occupied and occupied[0][0] <= start:
                heappush(vacant, heappop(occupied)[1])

            if vacant:
                room = heappop(vacant)
                heappush(occupied, (end, room))
            else:
                t, room = heappop(occupied)
                heappush(occupied, (t + end - start, room))

            count[room] += 1

        return count.index(max(count))
```

\_ Time Complexity:

O(m _ log(m) + m _ log(n)) - Sorting meetings requires mlog(m) time, we push and
pop from the heap in log(n) time, and we do this operation m times.

\_ Space Complexity:

O(n) - We need n space to store counts, and the heaps will store at most n
elements.
