---
tags:
  - leetcode
  - heaps
---

<a href="https://leetcode.com/problems/smallest-range-covering-elements-from-k-lists/">
632. Smallest Range Covering Elements from K Lists</a>

We're given k lists of increasing integers. We need to define a range from
[start, end] where at least 1 element from each of the k lists is present. The range
also need to be as small as possible. Smallness is defined as, for [a, b] and
[c, d], b - a < d - c or b - a = d - c and a < c.

We essentially solve this with a combination of sliding window and a min heap.
To kick off our sliding window implementation, we'll maintain start and end
variables for tracking the current smallest range. We'll also maintain a maximum
variable to track the maximum value we've seen so far. This maximum value will
allow us to shrink the range as we process new values in each loop.

We proceed to start with the 0th element in each array, pushing them onto a
heap. Each time we pop from the heap, we'll receive the smallest element that
needs to be evaluated, so far. We also store the current index correlating to
this element with its lists in the k lists provided, as well as the index of the
list we're currently evaluating. This allows us to detect when we've hit the end
of a list in our k lists, as well as select the next element in the k lists to
push to the heap.

While the heap exists, we pop, receiving the smallest integer across all the
lists. If this minimum value less the current maximum is less than the current
range, we update the range. If we've reached the end of this list, we return the
range. Otherwise, we find the first element smaller than this one in the current
list and push it to the heap. We also update the maximum value if the new
element is greater than the current maximum.

The solution is as follows:

from heapq import heappush, heappop

```python
  class Solution:
      def smallestRange(self, nums: List[List[int]]) -> List[int]:
          heap, start, end, maximum = [], float("-inf"), float("inf"), float("-inf")

          for i, arr in enumerate(nums):
              heappush(heap, (arr[0], 0, i))
              maximum = max(maximum, arr[0])

          while heap:
              minimum, i, arr_index = heappop(heap)

              if maximum - minimum < end - start:
                  start, end = minimum, maximum

              n = len(nums[arr_index])

              if i == n - 1:
                  return [start, end]

              while i < n:
                  if nums[arr_index][i] > minimum or i == n - 1:
                      heappush(heap, (nums[arr_index][i], i, arr_index))
                      maximum = max(maximum, nums[arr_index][i])
                      break

                  i += 1
```

\_ Time Complexity:

O(n \* log(m)) - Where m is the number of lists and n is the number of elements
in the lists.

\_ Space Complexity:

O(m) - At most, we'll have m elements in our heap, where m is the number of
lists.
