---
tags:
  - leetcode
  - dynamic
  - programming
---

<a href="https://leetcode.com/problems/longest-arithmetic-subsequence/">
1027. Longest Arithmetic Subsequence</a>

Similar to our other subsequence problems, but with a bit of a twist when it
comes to memoizing our solutions. We're asked to find the longest arithmetic
subsequence, such that all members of the subsequence have the same difference,
i.e. for all i, seq[i + 1] - seq[i] is the same value.

In previous subsequence problems with an arithmetic difference, we not that the
desired difference is provided to us. This makes it easier to store our
memoization dictionary. In this instance, for each index / value, we have to
record all the subsequences that can be created up to this point, i, for a
particular difference. Thus, the dictionary will be indexed with a tuple of
values:

- T[(i, diff)]

Where diff is the difference between two numbers, e.g. nums[i] and nums[j].
Instead of looking forward for our next member of the subsequence, for each
number i, we'll look back to front using j, where j will iterate from 0 to i.
Each number, j, we will already have recorded the subsequences that end at j, as
well as the difference between the numbers in the subsequence. Therefore, if the
number i can be appended to one of j's subsequences, because their differences
are the same, we reuse the recorded length of the existing subsequence and
append i to it.

The solution is as follows:

```python
  class Solution:
      def longestArithSeqLength(self, nums: List[int]) -> int:
          n, T = len(nums), defaultdict(int)

          for i in range(n):
              x = nums[i]

              for j in range(i):
                  diff = x - nums[j]
                  T[(i, diff)] = T[(j, diff)] + 1

          return max(T.values()) + 1
```

\_ Time Complexity:

O(n^2) - At each index i, we iterate from 0 to i - n is the length of the input.

\_ Space Complexity:

O(n^2) - We store all subsequences in a dictionary.
