---
tags:
  - leetcode
  - dynamic
  - programming
---

<a href="https://leetcode.com/problems/longest-common-subsequence/">
1143. Longest Common Subsequence</a>

Given two strings, we're asked to return their longest common subsequence -
meaning the longest string of characters we can create from the two strings
maintaining the order of the characters.

Using dynamic programming, we can memoize our running count of the longest
common subsequence in a table. At each iteration through the 2D table, we can
reuse the values we've calculated so far to finalize our answer of the longest
common subsequence.

We'll maintain a table of size T[m + 1][n + 1], where m and n are the lengths of
the two strings, initializing the table with 0 values. We'll iterate through the
two strings, and at each step, we'll check to see if the characters match for
indices i - 1 and j - 1. If they do, we keep the answer from the previous
iteration and add 1 to it.

What's the previous iteration? It's the value at T[i - 1][j - 1] - the diagonal.
We're essentially saying that we're choosing this letter because it matches, and
we want to update this point with the decision that we made before reaching
these matching characters.

If the characters don't match, we'll take the maximum of the value at T[i -
1][j] and T[i][j - 1]. We're essentially deciding whether to keep the character
from the first or second string, whichever one is provided the longest common
subsequence so far.

Eventually we'll reach the end of the two strings, and the answer will be at
T[m][n].

The solution is as follows:

```python
  class Solution:
      def longestCommonSubsequence(self, text1: str, text2: str) -> int:
          m, n = len(text1), len(text2)
          T = [[0 for _ in range(n + 1)] for _ in range(m + 1)]

          for i in range(1, m + 1):
              for j in range(1, n + 1):
                  T[i][j] = T[i - 1][j - 1] + 1 if text1[i - 1] == text2[j - 1] else max(T[i - 1][j], T[i][j - 1])

          return T[m][n]
```

\_ Time Complexity:

O(m _ n) - We iterate through a table of size m _ n, where m and n are the
lengths of the two strings.

\_ Space Complexity:

O(m _ n) - We maintain a memoization table of size m _ n.
