---
tags:
  - leetcode
  - dynamic
  - programming
---

<a href="https://leetcode.com/problems/number-of-dice-rolls-with-target-sum/">
1155. Number of Dice Rolls With Target Sum</a>

Similar to the coin change problem, but instead of coins having a fixed value
the coins can have a value up to k, with k being the number of faces on a die.
We're asked to determine how many unique combinations of n die with k faces make
the target value, target.

Using dynamic programming, we can avoid recomputing already solved solutions. I
would provide you with the bottom-up approach using a table but, frankly, this
problem makes more sense if we use recursion with memoization - a top-down
approach. The two approaches have the same complexity, so we're going to stick
with the easier one to understand.

We'll start with the base case for our recursion. Once we've rolled all n die,
if the sum of our dice doesn't equal the target, we return 0, else we return 1 -
we've found a combination.

For the recursion, while we're picking die, we'll roll one but we're only
accepting values from 1 to k (inclusive) or the amount remaining for us to reach
the target (inclusive). Why? Well if we've already rolled some die and the
current amount remaining to reach the target is less than the number of faces,
there's no point in rolling for all the faces. Once we've picked a face for the
die, we increase the number of die we've rolled and add the face value to our
sum. Then we'll recursively move to the next die.

Once this recursion collapses, we'll have recorded all the combinations of n die
with k faces that give us the target value. Memoization prevents duplicate work.

The solution is as follows:

```python
  class Solution:
      def numRollsToTarget(self, n: int, k: int, target: int) -> int:
          mod = int(10e8 + 7)

          @cache
          def dp(i: int, t: int) -> int:
              if i == n:
                  return 1 if t == target else 0

              ans = 0

              for j in range(1, min(k + 1, target - t + 1)):
                  ans += dp(i + 1, t + j)

              return ans

          return dp(0, 0) % mod
```

\_ Time Complexity:

O(n _ t _ k) - Where n is the number of die, t is the target, and k is the
number of faces, this is the number of different paths we can traverse while
executing this recursive algorithm.

\_ Space Complexity:

O(n _ t) - The recursive call stack can reach size n _ t.
