---
tags:
  - leetcode
  - dynamic
  - programming
---

<a href="https://leetcode.com/problems/word-break/">139. Word Break</a>

Given a list of words and a string, we're asked to determine if the string can
be broken up into multiple strings without any leftover characters using the
list of words.

My natural intuition for substring problems is to use two pointers, i and j, to
reference the substring we're looking at and to maintain state. Because this
section is dynamic programming, I know I'll need to maintain a memoization table
of previously solved problems / states.

With our memoization table, T, T[0] will default to True. This represents the
empty string which is always part of our set, even the empty set. All other
parts of table are False. Each index in the table represents whether or not the
string can be split up into multiple strings using the word dictionary at that
index, i. For instance, in "leetcode" with dictionary ["leet", "code"], index T[4]
== True.

Our second pointer, j, we're going to iterate through the string with, and it
will represent the end of the substring. Our first pointer, i, will restart at 0
and iterate to j - 1 during each step of the algorithm. During each step, we'll
check to see if string[i:j] is in the word dictionary, and mark T[j] == True if
so. We'll only do this if the previous assessment of the previous substring was
also True, meaning T[i] needs to equal True. This allows our answer to build
upon previous solutions, because we wouldn't be able to truly split the string
if we only considered one substring in a vacuum.

The solution is as follows:

```python
class Solution:
    def wordBreak(self, s: str, wordDict: List[str]) -> bool:
        n, words = len(s), set(wordDict)
        T = [False] * (n + 1)
        T[0] = True

        for j in range(1, n + 1):
            for i in range(j):
                if T[i] and s[i:j] in words:
                    T[j] = True
                    break

        return T[-1]
```

\_ Time Complexity:

O(n^3 + m _ k) - Our nested for loop iterates n^2 times, and we do a substring
operation which takes n time. Also, converting our list to a set will take m _ k
time.

\_ Space Complexity:

O(n + m \* k) - We create a set from the input, and we maintain a memoization
table of size n.
