---
tags:
  - leetcode
  - dynamic
  - programming
---

<a href="https://leetcode.com/problems/stone-game-iii/">1406. Stone Game III</a>

Like all dynamic programming problem, we got two solutions we can discuss. I
attempted the recursive solution at first, however, I tracked more states than
necessary and overcomplicated the solution. Let's think about this dynamic
programming problem, our states are:

- Index of the current stone
- Score of Alice
- Score of Bob
- Player choosing a stone

Our recurrence relation is:

- We can make three choices during each turn:
  - Select 1 stone
  - Select 2 stones
  - Select 3 stones

We recursively assess all three choices, and maximize our choice for an outcome
wherein the current player's score is the highest. We're essentially creating a
game-playing AI, however, keeping track of whose turn it is, and the score for
each player adds an unnecessary amount of dimensions.

What we realize is, whoever wins or loses, is based on the difference of their
scores. If the difference is 0, Alice and Bob have tied. If the difference is
positive, Alice wins, and vice versa for Bob.

We don't need to keep track of which player is playing, our solution works if we
maximize the difference during our turn for our selection of stones versus the
next player's selection. Thus, we eliminate the states that keep track of
Alice's and Bob's score into a single variable, and we also eliminate the need
for turn tracking.

For the iterative, tabular solution, we only need to maintain 4 cells in a 1D
array - we only need to know the outcome of the three previous player choices in
order to solve T[i]. The bottom-up approach starts solving from the last stone
and works backwards, but the recurrence relation is still the same. We select 1
to 3 stones and maximize this sum against the difference of the previously
completed turns.

The recursive solutions is as follows:

```python
  class Solution:
      def stoneGameIII(self, stoneValue: List[int]) -> str:
          n = len(stoneValue)

          @cache
          def dp(i: int) -> int:
              if i == n:
                  return 0

              return max(
                  sum(stoneValue[i:j]) - dp(j) for j in range(i + 1, min(i + 3, n) + 1)
              )

          diff = dp(0)
          return "Alice" if diff > 0 else ("Bob" if diff < 0 else "Tie")
```

\_ Time Complexity:

O(n) - Where n is the number of stones, we iterate through each stone once.

\_ Space Complexity:

O(n) - We recursively evaluate the input n times, causing our stack frames to
reach this size.

The iterative, tabular solution is as follows:

```python
  class Solution:
      def stoneGameIII(self, stoneValue: List[int]) -> str:
          n, T = len(stoneValue), [0] * 4

          for i in range(n - 1, -1, -1):
              T[i % 4] = max(
                  sum(stoneValue[i:j]) - T[j % 4] for j in range(i + 1, min(i + 3, n) + 1)
              )

          return "Alice" if T[0] > 0 else ("Bob" if T[0] < 0 else "Tie")
```

\_ Time Complexity:

O(n) - We iterate through the input n times.

\_ Space Complexity:

O(1) - We use constant space for our memoization table.
