---
tags:
  - leetcode
  - dynamic
  - programming
---

<a href="https://leetcode.com/problems/solving-questions-with-brainpower/">
2140. Solving Questions With Brainpower</a>

Fun dynamic programming question, similar to <a href="198.html">198. House
Robber</a>. The difference is that during house robber we were making two
choices, the next house (i + 1), or the house after the next one (i + 2). In
this problem, the number of choices we skip can be anywhere from 1 to 10^5.

We solve it with a similar approach, and I'll show both the recursive and
iterative solutions. The recursive solution is top-down. Starting from index 0,
I'll recursively solve the succeeding problems and reuse computations by storing
answers in a table. During each decision, we make sure we're not out of range
and that this question already hasn't been solved. Then we proceed to take the
max of our two choices:

1. Skip the current question and solve the next one.
2. Solve the current question and solve the question that is i +
   questions[i][1] + 1 away, where i is the current index.

Eventually we'll reach the end of the questions list and then the recursion will
collapse as it returns base cases.

For the iterative solution, we also create a table to memoize our answer. This
time, we'll be doing a bottom-up approach, starting from the second to last
element in the questions list. We make the same two choices, to solve the
current question and the question that is i + questions[i][1] + 1 away, or to
skip the current question and solve the next one. We store the maximum of these
two choices in our table and continue until we reach the first element in the
questions list.

The recursive solution is as follows:

```python
class Solution:
    def mostPoints(self, questions: List[List[int]]) -> int:
        n = len(questions)
        memo = [0] * n

        def dp(i: int):
            if i > n - 1:
                return 0

            if memo[i]:
                return memo[i]

            memo[i] = max(dp(i + 1), dp(i + questions[i][1] + 1) + questions[i][0])

            return memo[i]

        return dp(0)
```

The iterative solution is as follows:

```python
class Solution:
    def mostPoints(self, questions: List[List[int]]) -> int:
        n = len(questions)
        memo = [0] * n
        memo[-1] = questions[-1][0]

        for i in range(n - 2, -1, -1):
            memo[i] = questions[i][0]

            if i + questions[i][1] + 1 < n:
                memo[i] += memo[i + questions[i][1] + 1]

            memo[i] = max(memo[i], memo[i + 1])

        return memo[0]
```

\_ Time Complexity:

O(n) - Where n is the length of questions, we solve each question once.

\_ Space Complexity:

O(n) - We maintain a table of length n to memoize our answers.
