---
tags:
  - leetcode
  - dynamic
  - programming
---

<a href="https://leetcode.com/problems/maximal-square/">221. Maximal Square</a>

Given a matrix of m x n size, we're asked to find the largest square in the
matrix such that all cells of the square contain the string "1". Knowing this is
a dynamic programming problem, we need to figure out what our recurrence
relation is.

We'll start from the top left of the matrix, and make our way towards the bottom
right. For each cell, we first check to see if it's a "1" or a "0". If it's a
"1", it could possibly be part of a larger square that we've previously
discovered. Since we're moving from the top left to the bottom right, we know
that we can probably use previously solved solutions for problems in the cells:

- [i - 1][j - 1]
- [i - 1][j]
- [i][j - 1]

The current cell will always be the bottom right corner of a square, and its
value represents the length of the edge of that square. Thus, if a current
cell's previous cells are all 1's, it means that adding the current cell to the
square will increase the size of the total square's edges to 2. That's because
we'll be adding 3 squares together with this one.

Similarly, if all the neighbor cells have a value of 2, it means that they are
cells within the bottom right corner of squares that have edges of length 2.
Adding all three of these squares together, plus the current cell, will create a
square with edges length 3.

Imagine a situation in which 2 cells have a value of 2, but one has a value
of 1. This means that the cell with a value of 1 is not in a square that's as
large as the other two cells. Therefore, if we add the current cell, we still
won't have a complete square. Thus, we must stick with the smallest of our
neighbors to accurately represent the size of squares in the matrix. Taking the
minimum neighbor's cell value, 1, and adding 1, accounting for our current cell,
we're merging the corners of the smaller squares and the larger squares, ending
up with a separate square with edges length 2.

The solution is as follows:

```python
  class Solution:
      def maximalSquare(self, matrix: List[List[str]]) -> int:
          m, n, ans = len(matrix), len(matrix[0]), 0
          T = [[0 for _ in range(n + 1)] for _ in range(m + 1)]

          for i in range(1, m + 1):
              for j in range(1, n + 1):
                  if int(matrix[i - 1][j - 1]):
                      T[i][j] = min(T[i - 1][j - 1], T[i - 1][j], T[i][j - 1]) + 1
                  else:
                      T[i][j] = 0

                  ans = max(ans, T[i][j])

          return ans * ans
```

\_ Time Complexity:

O(mn) - We iterate over each row and column once.

\_ Space Complexity:

O(mn) - We memoize our solution for each cell in a table m x n size.
