---
tags:
  - leetcode
  - dynamic
  - programming
---

<a href="https://leetcode.com/problems/coin-change/">322. Coin Change</a>

We're given an array of coin values and we're asked to find the minimum number
of coins that we can combine to create a target amount. We can use each coin an
infinite number of times.

We use dynamic programming and memoization to solve this problem efficiently. We
create a table of size amount + 1, and initialize this table with float('inf')
values. We set the 0th index to 0. This table represents the minimum number of
coins required to create the amount at index i - that we know so far. This table
is continuously updated as we iterate through the coins and find new solutions.

For each coin, we'll iterate through the amounts from coin -> amount + 1. At
each step of the iteration, we evaluate the minimum number of coins required to
create the amount at index i. We keep the minimum of the current value at index
i or the value at index T[i - coin] + 1.

Essentially, if it takes less coins to create the value with the current coin
we're inspecting versus the value we've calculated so far, we update the value
at index i. Eventually, we've calculated the minimum number of coins required to
create the target amount.

The solution is as follows:

```python
class Solution:
    def coinChange(self, coins: List[int], amount: int) -> int:
        T = [float("inf")] * (amount + 1)
        T[0] = 0

        for coin in coins:
            for value in range(coin, amount + 1):
                T[value] = min(T[value], T[value - coin] + 1)

        return T[amount] if T[amount] != float("inf") else -1
```

\_ Time Complexity:

O(n \* k) - Where n is the number of coins, and k is the amount.

\_ Space Complexity:

O(k) - We maintain a table of length k to memoize our answers.
