---
tags:
  - leetcode
  - dynamic
  - programming
---

<a href="https://leetcode.com/problems/unique-paths-ii/">63. Unique Paths II</a>

We reuse the existing space in the input, for funsies. We could always create
another memoization table, but because we're leetcoding, let's be as efficient
as possible. We're given an input grid, and we're asked to find the number of
unique paths but there's a catch - we have obstacles that might prevent us from
reaching the end.

First, we check to make sure our starting point and end points don't have
obstacles covering them. If not, we mark the end point as having 1 unique path
to reach it - (m - 1, n - 1) is the end point. Then, we preprocess the grid for
both the last column and the last row.

For the last column and the last row, we check to make sure the current cell
we're inspecting isn't an obstacle. If it isn't we check to make sure the
previous cell below or to the right has a valid path to the end - meaning that
cell equals 1. If so, we mark our cell as 1 as well - meaning it has a valid
path to the end. Otherwise, we mark it as 0 - no valid path to the end from this
cell.

We begin to process the rest of the grid from (m - 2, n - 2) - the first cells
that can access memoized values from the bottom and right cells. If the current
cell we're inspecting isn't an obstacle, we add the number of unique paths from
the bottom and right. Otherwise, we mark the current cell as 0 - it's an
obstacle so no unique paths exist from this cell to the end.

Eventually, at (0, 0), we'll have the number of unique paths from (0, 0) to the
end.

The solution is as follows:

```python
class Solution:
    def uniquePathsWithObstacles(self, obstacleGrid: List[List[int]]) -> int:
        m, n = len(obstacleGrid), len(obstacleGrid[0])

        if obstacleGrid[0][0] or obstacleGrid[m - 1][n - 1]:
            return 0

        obstacleGrid[m - 1][n - 1] = 1

        for i in range(m - 2, -1, -1):
            obstacleGrid[i][n - 1] = int(
                not obstacleGrid[i][n - 1] and obstacleGrid[i + 1][n - 1]
            )

        for j in range(n - 2, -1, -1):
            obstacleGrid[m - 1][j] = int(
                not obstacleGrid[m - 1][j] and obstacleGrid[m - 1][j + 1]
            )

        for i in range(m - 2, -1, -1):
            for j in range(n - 2, -1, -1):
                if not obstacleGrid[i][j]:
                    obstacleGrid[i][j] = (
                        obstacleGrid[i + 1][j] + obstacleGrid[i][j + 1]
                    )
                else:
                    obstacleGrid[i][j] = 0

        return obstacleGrid[0][0]
```

\_ Time Complexity:

O(m \* n) - Where m is the number of rows, and n is the number of columns, this
solution requires polynomial time to calculate the number of unique paths.

\_ Space Complexity:

O(1) - We reuse the existing space provided in the input.
