---
tags:
  - leetcode
  - dynamic
  - programming
---

<a href="https://leetcode.com/problems/minimum-falling-path-sum/">931. Minimum
Falling Path Sum</a>

This is a graph represented as a matrix, with the cost to reach a node along the
path represented by a postive number in the node's representative cell in the
matrix. Traversing this graph, we can make as little as two choices, or at most
three choices - to go down, down and left, or down and right.

These choices are restricted by our location within the matrix. If we're at the
rightmost column, we can only choose down and left or down. Alternatively, if
we're at the leftmost column, we can only choose down and right or down.
Otherwise, we can choose all three.

We also notice that the input will always be size `n * n` - so we don't have to
worry about situations where only one choice (down) will be available.

Finally, we know that in the last row `matrix[n - 1][:]`, no more choices can be
made for any cell - these are all final nodes within a path in the graph.

We pursue a bottom-up dynamic programming approach and, because we using a
bottom-up approach, we can reuse the input matrix to store our choices and
memoization table, saving us some space.

We know that no choices can be made in the last row, `matrix[n - 1][:]`, so we
start making choices from the penultimate row, `matrix[n - 2][:]`. Start from
the rightmost column and moving left, we make sure that in the rightmost and
leftmost column, we only decide between two choices:

- Down and left or down
- Down and right or down

Otherwise, we decide between three choices:

- Down and left, down and right, or down

At each cell, we find the minimum cost across our three choices and add it to
the current cost of the current cell, essentially choose the minimum cost path
from the current node to the falling node in the graph. These choices build upon
each other as we backtrack upwards to the preceding row. Eventually, the top
row, `matrix[0][:]`, will have the values of the minimum falling path from each
starting node - we return the minimum of these minimums, `min(matrix[0])`.

The solution is as follows:

```python
class Solution:
    def minFallingPathSum(self, matrix: List[List[int]]) -> int:
        n = len(matrix)

        for i in range(n - 2, -1, -1):
            for j in range(n - 1, -1, -1):
                matrix[i][j] += min(
                    matrix[i + 1][j],
                    matrix[i + 1][max(0, j - 1)],
                    matrix[i + 1][min(n - 1, j + 1)],
                )

        return min(matrix[0])
```

\_ Time Complexity:

O(n^2) - Where n is the size of the rows and columns in the matrix, we iterate
through all cells provided.

\_ Space Complexity:

O(1) - We reuse the existing space provided in the input.
