---
tags:
  - leetcode
  - hashing
---

<a href="https://leetcode.com/problems/maximum-erasure-value/">1695. MMaximum
Erasure Value</a>

Literally the same problem as a previous one we encountered, maximum subarray
with at most k duplicates or something. In this scenario, we're looking for no
duplicates. In order to solve this, we mantain a set of the numbers we've seen
in the input list. We maintain the answer variable, the current sum, and the
left pointer. We could maintain a right pointer, but iterating through values in
a list doesn't necessarily require an index to iterate on.

If we've previously seen the number (it's in the seen set), we remove the number
currently pointed to by the left pointer from the set, subtract the value of the
number from the running total, and then increment the left pointer. We continue
to do this until the number is no longer present in the set.

We add the number back to the set - our previous steps were to remove duplicates
like discussed, but also to move the left pointer to the right to maintain or
requirement for a subarray of unique numbers. We add the value of the number to
the running total, and retain the max value of the current answer vs. the
running total.

The solution is as follows:

from collections import defaultdict

```python
  class Solution:
      def maximumUniqueSubarray(self, nums: List[int]) -> int:
          seen = set()
          ans = l = curr = 0

          for num in nums:
              while num in seen:
                  seen.remove(nums[l])
                  curr -= nums[l]
                  l += 1

              seen.add(num)
              curr += num
              ans = max(ans, curr)

          return ans
```

\_ Time Complexity:

O(n) - We iterate through the input once.

\_ Space Complexity:

O(n) - We maintain a set of numbers we've previously seen.
