---
tags:
  - leetcode
  - hashing
---

<a href="https://leetcode.com/problems/equal-row-and-column-pairs/">
2352. Equal Row and Column Pairs</a>

The description of this problem leaves much to be desired as it's honestly
confusing trying to decipher what the problem wants from us.

Ok. You've got a n x n matrix of numbers. Sometimes the rows and columns have
the same sequence of numbers. We want to find the number of pairs of these rows
and columns that have the same sequence of numbers. We can find the number of
pairs by mutliplying the numbers of times we've seen a matching row and column.

To track the number of times we've seen a row or a column, let's maintain a
dictionary. How do we index into said dictionary for a row or column? We convert
the list that defines the row or column into a tuple. Tuples are hashable -
super nice to solve stuff in Python.

There's a trick here. Rows are easy to access. Columns, on the other hand, we're
going to have to rebuild them using i and j to index into the matrix. Just
requires a couple of extra lines, don't freak out.

Alright, once we catalouged all the rows and columns and how many times we've
seen them, we compile our answer. We iterate through all the row tuples we've
discovered, pulling the count of the number of times we've seen a row. We also
index into the columns with the same row tuple, pulling the count for the number
of time we've seen that column. Finally, we add their product to the answer.

The solution is as follows:

```python
class Solution:
    def equalPairs(self, grid: List[List[int]]) -> int:
        ans = 0
        n = len(grid)

        rows = defaultdict(int)
        for row in grid:
            rows[tuple(row)] += 1

        cols = defaultdict(int)
        for j in range(n):
            col = []

            for i in range(n):
                col.append(grid[i][j])

            cols[tuple(col)] += 1

        for row in rows:
            ans += rows[row] * cols[row]

        return ans
```

\_ Time Complexity:

O(n^2) - We parse through the entire matrix to rip out the columns.

\_ Space Complexity:

O(n^2) - In the worst case, being all rows and columns are unique, both
dictionaries to store the counts of the rows and columns will have n keys with
each key having a length of n.
