---
title: Histograms and scatter plots
tags:
  - histograms
  - scatter
  - plots
  - pandas
  - python
  - daily
  - returns
  - slopes
  - correlation
  - cs7646
  - machine
  - learning
  - trading
---

This lesson covers how to utilize histograms and scatter plots to analyze and
compare daily returns of multiple stocks. This is a more useful technique than
analyzing a stock by itself.

## Daily returns

This section discusses what a histogram looks like and what information it
captures. A high-level representation of a histogram in comparison with a stock
price and daily returns graph can be found below:

![daily-returns-historgram](daily-returns-histogram.png)

## Histogram of daily returns

In the below example, the lecture discusses the normal shape of a histogram
which, like most things, is a bell curve. The lecture discusses the concept of
**kurtosis**, describing **fat tails** and **skinny tails** - a measurement of
the distribution of the histogram.

**Fat tails** mean that there are a large number of occurrences happening on the
outer edges of the distribution, meanwhile **skinny tails** indicate the
opposite. Below is a high-level representation of these concepts:

![histogram](histogram.png)

## Scatterplots

This section discusses how scatterplots are generated to compare two stocks. As
we can see, general trends begin to form when a scatterplot is generated for two
stocks, allowing us to infer about the behavior or performance for a particular
stock. Below is a high-level representation provided by the lecture:

![scatterplot](scatterplot.png)

## Scatterplot slopes

In this section of the lecture, **alpha** and **beta** are described for a given
scatterplot. **alpha** and **beta** are both functions of the slopes of the
possible lines that can be drawn for a given scatterplot. **Beta** describes how
reactive a particular stock is to the market. If the market goes up by %1, this
stock would also achieve %1 - if the **beta** was equal to one. If the **beta**
was equal to two, the stock would achieve %2 while the market achieved %1.

In a similar vein, we have **alpha** - the intersection between the line we've
drawn using the scatterplot and the vertical axis. **alpha** describes how a
stock performs on average better than market making stocks like the S&P500.

A high-level representation of these concepts is provided below:

![slopes](slopes.png)

## Correlation

**Correlation** is a measurement of how close the dots on a scatterplot are to
the line we've drawn through the scatterplot.
