---
tags:
  - leetcode
  - hashing
---

<a href="https://leetcode.com/problems/minimum-consecutive-cards-to-pick-up/">
2260. Minimum Consecutive Cards to Pick Up</a>

Another problem that can be solved with hashing to keep track of the last time
we've seen a value. Hashing will allow us to determine the minimum length
between to occurrences of the same card. This question is essentially asking for
the minimum length subarray that contains a duplicate amongst an array that
possibly contains duplicates.

To solve this problem, first we confirm that there is a duplicate, otherwise we
return -1. We do this by creating a set from the input list or cards, and
comparing the sets length against the lenght of the input list. If the set is
equal to the length of the input list, we know that all values are unique -
there are no duplicates. Return -1.

Next, we create a seen dictionary to keep track of the last time we've seen a
particular card. We maintain an answer variable to minimize across the iteration
of the list. Enumerating the list, we track the index and the value of the card.
If the card has appeared before, we calculate the answer, taking the minimum
value between the current answer and the difference of the current index and the
last seen index. We update the seen dictionary, storing the current index of the
last time we've seen this card value.

If the card hasn't been seen before, we add it to the seen dictionary.

The solution is as follows:

```python
from collections import defaultdict

class Solution:
    def minimumCardPickup(self, cards: List[int]) -> int:
        seen = defaultdict(int)
        ans = float("inf")

        for i, card in enumerate(cards):
            if card in seen:
                ans = min(ans, i - seen[card] + 1)

            seen[card] = i

        return ans if ans < float("inf") else -1
```

\_ Time Complexity:

O(n) - We iterate through the input list once.

\_ Space Complexity:

O(n) - We store at most n values in the seen dictionary.
