---
tags:
  - leetcode
  - greedy
---

<a href="https://leetcode.com/problems/largest-palindromic-number/">
2384. Largest Palindromic Number</a>

Given a string of numbers, we're asked to find the longest palindromic number
that can be created, with no leading "0" characters. What we know about
palindromes is that the string needs to be the same, forward and reverse. At
least one of the numbers in the original input will be in the middle, if it
appears in the original string an odd numebr of times.

Given the task ahead of us, we'll tackle it greedily. We want to prioritize the
largest numbers first at the beginning of the new string, and the smallest
numbers in the center - except for the middle. If a middle is present in the
original string (an integer that appears an odd number of times), we'll chose
the largest of these middle options.

We count the occurence of every integer in the original string, sort them, and
process them from largest to smallest. We maintain a middle which is the maximum
number seen an odd number of times. For each integer in the input, we add to our
first half of the string half of the occurrences of the integer in the original
string.

Finally, we strip off all leading zeros and then construct the answer - the
first half in decreasing order, the middle, and the last half reversed. If the
ans is "" we return "0", otherwise we return the largest palindromic number from
the input.

The solution is as follows:

```python
from collections import Counter

class Solution:
    def largestPalindromic(self, num: str) -> str:
        count = Counter(num)
        ans = m = ""

        for char in sorted(count.keys(), reverse=True):
            m = max(m, char * (count[char] & 1))
            ans += char * (count[char] // 2)

        ans = ans.lstrip("0")
        ans = ans + m + ans[::-1]
        return ans if ans else "0"
```

\_ Time Complexity:

O(n log n) - We count and sort the input.

\_ Space Complexity:

O(n) - We maintain strings to construct the final answer.
