---
title: SameSite Strict bypass via client-side redirect
tags:
  - web-app
  - csrf
  - cross
  - site
  - request
  - forgery
---

<a href="https://portswigger.net/web-security/csrf/bypassing-samesite-restrictions/lab-samesite-strict-bypass-via-client-side-redirect/">
8. SameSite Strict bypass via client-side redirect</a>

This website sends us a cookie with the SameSite=Strict attribute. This
attribute prevents the browser from sending the cookie in a cross-site request.
We use a gadget to get the browser to conduct a client-side redirect to execute
our CSRF attack.

What's a client-side redirect? It's usually a redirect that happens in the
browser via JavaScript, rather than the server processing the input and sending
a 302 response. Client-side redirects are necessary to bypass SameSite=Strict
restrictions, because server-side redirects are still related to the cross-site
nature of the original CSRF attack. If we can get the browser to do a
client-side redirect, the browser will trust the request and send the cookie.

We discover that /post/comment/confirmation requests a script that reads the
postId parameter and joins the basename of the website and the postId parameter
to create a new URL - no checking of the postId parameter is conducted. After
this new endpoint is constructed the script redirects the user to the newly
constructed URL.

We abuse this code to conduct a Local File Inclusion (LFI), sending the user to
the /my-account/change-email endpoint, passing the parameters of the new email,
and the submit parameter required by the API. The victim visits our exploit
server, makes a GET request to this crafted URL, travels to
/post/comment/confirmation and then is redirected to /my-account/change-email.

Solution:

```html
<script>
  document.location =
    "https://<LAB-ID>.web-security-academy.net/post/comment/confirmation?postId=1/../../my-account/change-email?email=pwned%40web-security-academy.net%26submit=1"
</script>
```
