---
tags:
  - leetcode
  - greedy
---

<a href="https://leetcode.com/problems/least-number-of-unique-integers-after-k-removals/">
1481. Least Number of Unique Integers after K Removals</a>

We have a list of integers, and an integer k that allows us to remove k integers
from the list. We're asked to remove k elements from the list such that we've
minimized the number of unique integers in the list.

Greedily, we want to remove the integers with the least frequency. We could do
this with a heap, but it's actually more performant and fun to use the counting
sort approach. We take the frequency of each integer, and then we also get the
frequency of the frequencies. Starting from 1, the lowest frequency, we find out
how many integers have the frequency of 1.

Between k // 1 and the number of integers with a frequency of 1, we choose the
minimum - this will be the number of integers with frequency 1 that we remove.
We update k, subtracting the frequency multiplied with the numbers of integers
with this frequency. We update the number of unique integers by subtracting the
number of integers with this frequency.

If k is less than the current frequency, we couldn't possibly remove more
integers from the list with a frequency greater than this one, so we return the
current number of unique elements.

The solution is as follows:

```python
from collections import Counter

class Solution:
    def findLeastNumOfUniqueInts(self, arr: List[int], k: int) -> int:
        freq = Counter(arr)
        uniq, n = len(freq), len(arr)
        freq_count = Counter(freq.values())

        for i in range(1, n + 1):
            mfd = min(k // i, freq_count.get(i, 0))
            k -= (i * mfd)
            uniq -= mfd

            if k < i:
                return uniq

        return 0
```

\_ Time Complexity:

O(n) - Counting sort takes O(n) time.

\_ Space Complexity:

O(n) - We use O(n) space for our dictionaries.
