---
tags:
  - leetcode
  - greedy
---

<a href="https://leetcode.com/problems/earliest-possible-day-of-full-bloom/">
2136. Earliest Possible Day of Full Bloom</a>

We're given two arrays, plantTime and growTime, that represent how long it takes
us to plant a flower and how long it takes us to grow a flower. We're asked to
find the earliest time possible where all flowers are blooming - this will
always occur one day after the plant's grow time (plantTime + growTime + 1).

Using our intuition, we can't really optimize for plantTime. No matter what,
time is restricted by sum(plantTime[n]) for all plants. We optimize for growTime
because the final bloom of all the flowers is restricted by the maximum
growTime. We don't want to be planting flowers that have a shorter growTime
while a plant with a longer growTime could already be growing.

Thus, we sort by highest growTime and iterate through the plants. We keep track
of our answer, the earliest day we get a full bloom, and the current time, t. We
iterate through the sorted list of germination periods for the flowers, and add
the plantTime of the current plant to our time elapsed, t. We take the maximum
of max(answer, t + growTime) because we want to find the earliest time where all
flowers are blooming.

The solution is as follows:

```python
  class Solution:
      def earliestFullBloom(self, plantTime: List[int], growTime: List[int]) -> int:
          germ = sorted([(start, end) for start, end in zip(plantTime, growTime)], key=lambda x: -x[1])
          ans = t = 0

          for start, end in germ:
              t += start
              ans = max(ans, t + end)

          return ans
```

\_ Time Complexity:

O(n log(n)) - We have to sort the input.

\_ Space Complexity:

O(n) - Python sorting takes O(n) space.
