---
tags:
  - leetcode
  - heaps
  - heap
---

<a href="https://leetcode.com/problems/find-k-pairs-with-smallest-sums/">
373. Find K Pairs with Smallest Sums</a>

Given two list of integers in increasing order, and an integer, k, we're asked
to find k pairs with the smallest sums. Naturally, we think to use a min heap to
solve this problem.

Our brute force solution would be to calculate all pairs and push them onto a
min heap, however, this would result in a time limit exceeded from the test
suite as we would have to process m \* n pairs.

What we can do, however, is essentially use a depth first search, treating the
two lists as part of a m \* n matrix. We start at the top left corner, (0, 0),
which is guaranteed to be the smallest sum pair as it's the first element in
both lists. We push this value to the heap and continue. For k steps, we pop the
smallest value from the heap, and add it to the answer. We search the adjacent
cells i + 1 and j + 1, pushing them to the heap. Like a regular depth first
search, we also maintain a seen set to avoid duplicates.

We're essentially treating each integer in the matrix as a node, and the edges
are the sum of the two integers. We're not searching for the shortest path to
any particular destination, but rather the shortest path in general.

The solution is as follows:

```python
from heapq import heappop, heappush

class Solution:
    def kSmallestPairs(
        self, nums1: List[int], nums2: List[int], k: int
    ) -> List[List[int]]:
        m, n = len(nums1), len(nums2)

        ans, seen = [], set()
        h = [(nums1[0] + nums2[0], (0, 0))]
        seen.add((0, 0))

        while k and h:
            val, (i, j) = heappop(h)
            ans.append([nums1[i], nums2[j]])

            if i + 1 < m and (i + 1, j) not in seen:
                heappush(h, (nums1[i + 1] + nums2[j], (i + 1, j)))
                seen.add((i + 1, j))

            if j + 1 < n and (i, j + 1) not in seen:
                heappush(h, (nums1[i] + nums2[j + 1], (i, j + 1)))
                seen.add((i, j + 1))

            k -= 1

        return ans
```

\_ Time Complexity:

O((min(k _ log(k), m _ n _ log(m _ n)))) - Unlikely we'll process m \* n pairs,
but if k is >=, this is the worst case.

\_ Space Complexity:

O(min(k, m _ n)) - Likely that k will be less than m _ n, but this is the size
of the heap in the worst case.
