---
tags:
  - leetcode
  - backtracking
---

<a href="https://leetcode.com/problems/palindrome-partitioning/">131. Palindrome
Partitioning</a>

We're given a string, s, and asked to return all possible partitions of s such
that each substring is a palindrome. Revisiting what a palindrome is, it's a
string that reads the same forwards and backwards.

We use backtracking similar to how we tackled the <a href="93.html">93. Restore
IP Addresses</a> problem, except we don't have to maintain the index of dots, we
just have to maintain the index of where we're paritioning the string. What's
nice is we also don't have to maintain a remainder variable to know how many
characters are left, because we're just chopping off characters as we traverse
each node in the search.

So we, be default, start of by inspecting partitions where the substrings are
length one. Obviously, these pass the palindrom check, then we add this
partition to our path and continue to backtrack on the remaining characters.
During each step, our iteration through the characters becomes smaller as we
remove characters from the start of the string.

Eventually, when we run out of characters, we know that all partitions in our
path are palindromes, so we append them to our answer.

The solution is as follows:

```python
  class Solution:
      def partition(self, s: str) -> List[List[str]]:
          self.ans = []

          def backtrack(t: str, path: List[str]) -> None:
              if not t:
                  self.ans.append(path)
                  return

              for i in range(1, len(t) + 1):
                  if t[:i] == t[:i][::-1]:
                      backtrack(t[i:], path + [t[:i]])

          backtrack(s, [])

          return self.ans
```

\_ Time Complexity:

O(2^n \* n) - Where n is the length of the string.

\_ Space Complexity:

O(n) - Our recursion stack can reach length n.
