---
tags:
  - leetcode
  - backtracking
---

<a href="https://leetcode.com/problems/the-k-th-lexicographical-string-of-all-happy-strings-of-length-n/">
1415. The k-th Lexicographical String of All Happy Strings of Length n</a>

We're given two integers, n and k. We're asked to create lexicographical strings
of length n, and return the kth one. All of these string have to be happy
strings! What does that mean? Means that for some string and i, where i is the
index, string[i] != string[i + 1] - so basically no duplicate characters next to
each other in the string.

We use backtracking the essentially DFS our way to victory. We treat each choice
of character in the string that we're creating as a node in the search. For a
particular node, our neighbors will be the characters "abc", however, we won't
travel the path where the next node's character is equal to current node's
character.

We keep searching until we hit a node where the string is equal to n. Then we
decide to see if we're at the kth string. If not, we just return, decrementing k
to keep track of the fact that we saw a node of length n.

Eventually, we create our final node, and it will be the kth node in our search.
We set our answer and then return. All other parts of our search during
backtracking will check to see if we found the answer - if so, they immediately
return. This helps us avoid checking other nodes when we've already found the
answer.

The solution is as follows:

```python
  class Solution:
      def getHappyString(self, n: int, k: int) -> str:
          self.ans, letters = "", "abc"

          def backtrack(s: List[str], t: int) -> None:
              nonlocal k

              if t == n:
                  k -= 1
                  if not k:
                      self.ans = "".join(s)
                  return

              for letter in letters:
                  if t > 0 and s[-1] == letter:
                      continue

                  s.append(letter)
                  backtrack(s, t + 1)
                  s.pop()

                  if self.ans:
                      return

          backtrack([], 0)

          return self.ans
```

\_ Time Complexity:

O(3^n) - We make 3 choices during each part of the search, and our paths of a
depth of n.

\_ Space Complexity:

O(n) - Our paths have a depth of n, so does our recursion stack.
