---
tags:
  - leetcode
  - backtracking
---

<a href="https://leetcode.com/problems/sudoku-solver/">37. Sudoku Solver</a>

We're given an unfinished Sudoku table and we're asked to solve it. This is a
normal constraint satisfaction problem (CSP), and we can solve it using
backtracking. First, we gather some information

- the size of the board, and we take the square root of that to get the size of
  the boxes in the board.

We define two lambda helper functions, one to get the binary representation of a
number we've selected, and another to get the box where a cell, defined by (row,
col), is contained within. We're using binary to represent what numbers are
present in a row, column, or box, and we use bit manipulation to check if a
number is present in a row, column, or box. These bitwise operations are faster
than using sets or some other form of index, and the position of a bit
determines the number or numbers current present in a row, column, or box.

We define two helper functions to fill or empty a box with a number, and another
helper function to check if a number selection is valid for a cell. Finally, we
recursively search from (0, 0).

If the location we're at during search is already filled, we skip it. If we're
at the end of the board, we return True. Otherwise, we go to the next column if
we're not at the end of the row. If we're at the end of the row, we go to the
next row.

If the location we're at during search is not filled, we try to fill it with a
number from 1 to 9. If the number we've selected is valid, we fill the location
with the number, and we recursively search from the next location. If the
recursive search returns True, we return True. Otherwise, we empty the location
and try the next number. Eventually, if we can't find a valid number, we return
False - this will cascade backwards during backtracking as well.

Eventually, we'll have completed our search and the board will be solved.

The solution is as follows:

```python
class Solution:
    def solveSudoku(self, board: List[List[str]]) -> None:
        N = len(board)
        n = int(N ** (1/2))
        binary = lambda x: 1 << (x - 1)
        box = lambda x, y: (x // n) * n + y // n
        rows, cols, boxes = (
            [0 for _ in range(N)],
            [0 for _ in range(N)],
            [0 for _ in range(N)],
        )

        def fill(row: int, col: int, num: int) -> None:
            rep = binary(num)
            rows[row] ^= rep
            cols[col] ^= rep
            boxes[box(row, col)] ^= rep
            board[row][col] = str(num)

        def empty(row: int, col: int, num: int) -> None:
            rep = binary(num)
            rows[row] ^= rep
            cols[col] ^= rep
            boxes[box(row, col)] ^= rep
            board[row][col] = "."

        def ok(row: int, col: int, num: int) -> bool:
            rep = binary(num)
            return (
                not rows[row] & rep
                and not cols[col] & rep
                and not boxes[box(row, col)] & rep
            )

        def fillNext(row: int, col: int) -> bool:
            if row == N - 1 and col == N - 1:
                return True
            elif col == N - 1:
                return backtrack(row + 1, 0)
            else:
                return backtrack(row, col + 1)

        def backtrack(row: int, col: int) -> bool:
            if board[row][col] != ".":
                return fillNext(row, col)

            ans = False

            for num in range(1, 10):
                if ok(row, col, num):
                    fill(row, col, num)
                    ans = fillNext(row, col)

                    if ans:
                        return ans

                    empty(row, col, num)

            return ans

        for i in range(N):
            for j in range(N):
                if board[i][j] != ".":
                    fill(i, j, int(board[i][j]))

        backtrack(0, 0)
```

\_ Time Complexity:

O(9^(n^2)) - Where n is the number of rows and columns, our recursive
backtracking solution will execute this many operations.

\_ Space Complexity:

O(n) - Where n is the number of rows and columns in the board, we use O(n) space
for the rows, columns, and boxes.
