---
tags:
  - leetcode
  - backtracking
---

<a href="https://leetcode.com/problems/combination-sum/">39. Combination Sum</a>

We're given a list of distinct integers, candidates, and asked to find all
combinations that sum to target. The number can be repeated in a particular
combination, however, the frequency of the number should be distinct across
combinations.

We use backtracking to construct our combinations, and we maintain a running
total as well as the current index to construct the next combination from.
During our recursion, if the running total is equal to the target, we append the
current combination to the answer list and return.

If the current number we're considering plus the running total is less than or
equal to the target, we add it to the running total and continue our recursion.
Otherwise, we return immediately. Why? Because of the time complexity of
combinations in general, it won't cost us much to also sort the input candidates
prior to backtracking. So if the current number in the sorted input list plus
the running total is greater than the target, we know all future numbers will
also be greater than the target. Therefore, we terminate recursion for this path
immediately.

The solution is as follows:

```python
class Solution:
    def combinationSum(self, candidates: List[int], target: int) -> List[List[int]]:
        n, ans = len(candidates), []
        candidates.sort()

        def backtrack(s: List[int], i: int, t: int) -> None:
            if t == target:
                ans.append(s[:])
                return

            for j in range(i, n):
                num = candidates[j]

                if t + num <= target:
                    s.append(num)
                    backtrack(s, j, t + num)
                    s.pop()
                else:
                    return

        backtrack([], 0, 0)

        return ans
```

\_ Time Complexity:

O(n^(t/m + 1)) - n is the number of candidates, t is the target value, and m is
the minimum value among the candidates.

\_ Space Complexity:

O(t/m) - The recursion stack will have at most t/m frames.
