---
tags:
  - leetcode
  - backtracking
---

<a href="https://leetcode.com/problems/permutations/">46. Permutations</a>

We're given a list of integers, nums, and asked to provide all possible
permutations. A permutation is a rearrangement of the elements provided in the
original list. We're asked to provide a list of these permutations with no
duplicate results.

To solve this, we use a technique known as backtracking. We treat each element
in the original list, nums, as a node in a graph. When we visit each node, the
child nodes will be the other numbers in the original list that aren't the
current nodes. We continue to traverse the graph until the current node's length
is equal to the length of the original list.

What we're doing at each node is adding numbers to the permutation candidate.
When we travel to the child node, if the permutation candidate is complete, we
add it to the answer list, and then return. Otherwise, we continue to travel to
child nodes. After a child node completes its backtracking procedure, we pop the
number we added to the list off, and visit the next child.

Because of the terrible time complexity of this algorithm, we maintain a hash
set that we can use to conduct O(1) time lookups - this allows us to tell when a
number is / isn't in the permutation candidate faster than a list.

The solution is as follows:

```python
  class Solution:
      def permute(self, nums: List[int]) -> List[List[int]]:
          ans, n = [], len(nums)

          def backtrack(curr: List[int], curr_set: set) -> None:
              if len(curr) == n:
                  ans.append(curr[:])
                  return

              for num in nums:
                  if num not in curr_set:
                      curr.append(num)
                      curr_set.add(num)
                      backtrack(curr, curr_set)
                      curr.pop()
                      curr_set.discard(num)

          backtrack([], set())
          return ans
```

\_ Time Complexity:

O(n \* n!) - Where n is the length of nums.

\_ Space Complexity:

O(n) - The size of the permutation candidates we maintain are at most the length
of nums.
