---
tags:
  - leetcode
  - backtracking
---

<a href="https://leetcode.com/problems/n-queens-ii/">52. N-Queens II</a>

We're asked to determine, for an n x n chessboard, the number distinct solutions
to the n-queens puzzle. Basically, the n-queens puzzle means there are n queens
for an n x n chessboard and none can attack each other.

We sole this using backtracking, and we treat our solution like a graph as we
traverse through ways we can place the queens. Starting with rows, we know we've
succeeded if we reach row == n, essentially because we're ruling out other
combinations prior to getting to this point.

For columns, we iterate through each column and store the column that a queen
we've selected is on. In future iterations of our traversal, we check to see if
the column we want to use is already selected - if so, we skip it.

Finally diagonals - you're not going to solve this problem unless you know this
random trick. Diagonals are the same for an n x n graph when you take the
difference of the row and column. A similar pattern occurs for anti-diagonals
when you sum the row and column. So we just use our row and column we select to
find out what diagonal / anti-diagonal the queen is on and place it into a set.

As we traverse through the graph, eventually we'll find combinations of rows,
columns, diagonals, and anti-diagonals that satisfy the n-queens puzzle. We
increment our count and return it at the end.

The solution is as follows:

```python
  class Solution:
      def totalNQueens(self, n: int) -> int:
          self.ans = 0

          def backtrack(row: int, cols: set, diags: set, antidiags: set) -> None:
              if row == n:
                  self.ans += 1
                  return

              for col in range(n):
                  diag = row - col
                  antidiag = row + col

                  if col in cols or diag in diags or antidiag in antidiags:
                      continue

                  cols.add(col)
                  diags.add(diag)
                  antidiags.add(antidiag)

                  backtrack(row + 1, cols, diags, antidiags)

                  cols.discard(col)
                  diags.discard(diag)
                  antidiags.discard(antidiag)

          backtrack(0, set(), set(), set())

          return self.ans
```

\_ Time Complexity:

O(n!) - n is the number of rows and columns.

\_ Space Complexity:

O(n) - The recursion stack will have at most n frames.
