---
tags:
  - leetcode
  - backtracking
---

<a href="https://leetcode.com/problems/restore-ip-addresses/">93. Restore IP
Addresses</a>

We're given a string of numbers, s, and we're asked to find all ways in which
this string could represent a valid IP address. First, we'll discuss some things
we can check to determine if an octet in an IP address is valid.

For an octet, it can be of length 1. If an octet's length is greater than 1, it
can't start with a 0. If an octet's length is greater than 1, and it doesn't
start with 0, it's length can't be greater than 3. Finally, if it's length is 3,
its value can't be greater than 255.

Now that we have that out of the way, we'll talk about our backtracking
solution. For each step in the search, we'll start by selecting one number to
begin constructing an octet. We'll keep track of where we started with an index
reference, and we'll also keep track of where we delineate between each octet -
essentially, we'll keep track of where we're placing the dots in the new IP
address.

When we make a new selection for the octet, which is the start and end index of
the octet, we check the constraints we listed earlier to determine if it's a
valid octet. If so, we continue our search, incrementing our start index by the
length of the octet we've chose. If not, we backtrack and try a different
selection.

If we've selected 3 dots, and the remaining part of the string after our third
dot is a valid octet, we reconstruct the IP address and append it to our answer
array. If not, we ignore it.

Finally, to decrease our search space, we check to see if the remaining part of
the string is too large. We check how many octets we have left to create and
multiply it by 3, the maximum size of each octet. If the remaining part of the
string is larger than this value, we know that we have too many characters left
that we won't be able to fit in the remaining octets, so we return. Likewise, if
the number of characters left is less than the number of octets we have left to
create, we return.

The solution is as follows:

```python
class Solution:
    def restoreIpAddresses(self, s: str) -> List[str]:
        n, self.ans = len(s), []

        def valid(i: int, j: int) -> bool:
            return j == 1 or (s[i] != "0" and (j < 3 or s[i : i + j] <= "255"))

        def backtrack(dots: List[int], start: int) -> None:
            m = len(dots)
            remaining = n - start
            remainingOctets = 4 - m

            if remaining > remainingOctets * 3 or remaining < remainingOctets:
                return

            if m == 3:
                if valid(start, remaining):
                    octets, k = "", 0

                    for dot in dots:
                        octets += s[k : k + dot] + "."
                        k += dot

                    octets += s[start:]
                    self.ans.append(octets)

                return

            for curr in range(1, min(4, remaining + 1)):
                dots.append(curr)

                if valid(start, curr):
                    backtrack(dots, start + curr)

                dots.pop()

        backtrack([], 0)

        return self.ans
```

\_ Time Complexity:

O(1) - For this question, we have constant time complexity - why? We'll, if the
constraints were variable length, the complexity would be O(m^n _ n). There are
at most m^n-1 possibilities, and checking if an octet is valid takes m _ n time.
Since m is 3, and n is 4, we have a constant time complexity.

\_ Space Complexity:

O(1) - For this question, we have constant space requirements - why? The space
complexity would be O(m \* n) if the constraints were variable length. Since m
is 3, and n is 4, we have a constant space complexity.
