---
tags:
  - leetcode
  - binary
  - search
---

<a href="https://leetcode.com/problems/minimum-number-of-days-to-make-m-bouquets/">
1482. Minimum Number of Days to Make m Bouquets</a>

We're given a list of when flowers in a garden bloom, bloomDay, a number of
bouquets requested, m, and the number of flowers required in each bouquet, k. We
can only pick flowers on the day they bloom or after. We also can only put
adjacent flowers in a given bouquet. We're asked to find the minimum or first
day in which we can satisfy the request to create m bouquets of k flowers each.

We use binary search, where our search space is the minimum and maximum bloom
days. For a selected bloomDay, mid, we check how many bouquets we can make with
k flowers each. If a flower, bloomDay[i], is less than or equal to mid, we
increment the count of flowers in the current bouquet. Otherwise, we reset the
number of flowers in the bouquet to 0. If we can grab k adjacent flowers to
create the bouquet, we increment the count of bouquets and reset our flowers
count.

If the number of bouquets we created is greater than or equal to m, we know that
we've waited too long, and we can probably create the bouquet on an earlier
day - thus we set r = mid - 1. Otherwise, if we can't make the bouquet, we know
we aren't waiting long enough, so we set l = mid + 1.

Eventually, l greater than r, and l will be the minimum day we can create m
bouquets of k flowers.

The solution is as follows:

```python
class Solution:
    def minDays(self, bloomDay: List[int], m: int, k: int) -> int:
        n = len(bloomDay)

        if n < m * k:
            return -1

        l, r = min(bloomDay), max(bloomDay)

        while l <= r:
            mid = (r + l) // 2
            bouquets = flowers = 0

            for i in range(n):
                if bloomDay[i] <= mid:
                    flowers += 1
                else:
                    flowers = 0

                if flowers == k:
                    bouquets += 1
                    flowers = 0

            if bouquets >= m:
                r = mid - 1
            else:
                l = mid + 1

        return l
```

\_ Time Complexity:

O(n log(m)) - Where n is the number of flowers and m is the maximum bloom day.

\_ Space Complexity:

O(1) - We use constant space to conduct the search.
