---
tags:
  - leetcode
  - binary
  - search
---

<a href="https://leetcode.com/problems/minimum-time-to-complete-trips/">
2187. Minimum Time to Complete Trips</a>

We're given a list of buses where time[i] is the time it takes for a bus to
complete a trip. We need to complete totalTrips trips. We're asked to find the
minimum time to reach total trips given our buses.

We need to think - for a given time t, how do we determine how many trips are
taken across all our buses? Well, we know that number of trips for a particular
bus is t // time[i]. So for each bus and a time, t, we can calculate the number
of trips that can be taken by all buses for that time.

Next, we want to find the minimum time that is at least, so greater than or
equal to, totalTrips. We use binary search to create an upper and lower bound to
find this minimum, using the minimum time[i] as the lower bound and min(time[i])
_ totalTrips as the upper bound. We choose these bounds because the fastest we
can move is min(time[i]) and the slowest we can move is min(time[i]) _
totalTrips.

During each iteration of binary search, for a given time, m, we calculate the
number of trips that can be taken across all buses. If the number of trips is
less than totalTrips, we set the lower bound to m + 1. If the number of trips is
greater than or equal to totalTrips, we set the upper bound to m.

Eventually, we find the minimum time that is at least totalTrips and return it.

The solution is as follows:

```python
  class Solution:
      def minimumTime(self, time: List[int], totalTrips: int) -> int:
          l, r = min(time), (min(time) * totalTrips)

          while l < r:
              m = (r + l) // 2

              if sum(m // t for t in time) >= totalTrips:
                  r = m
              else:
                  l = m + 1

          return l
```

\_ Time Complexity:

O(m log(n)) - Where m is the number of buses and n is totalTrips.

\_ Space Complexity:

O(1) - We use a constant amount of space.
