---
tags:
  - leetcode
  - binary
  - search
---

<a href="https://leetcode.com/problems/koko-eating-bananas/">875. Koko Eating
Bananas</a>

We're given a list of piles of bananas where piles[i] describes the number of
bananas in the pile. We're given a time limit, h, where we need to eat all of
the bananas. We're asked to find the minimum rate, k, at which we need to eat
the bananas.

Using binary search, we kind search for the minimum rate at which we can eat all
the bananas within the given time. We do this by creating our own range, 1 to
max(piles), that describes the rates we can choose from. We binary search
through this range of rates, and at each selection, we iterate through the piles
and calculate the time it would take to eat all the bananas at the selected
rate.

If the time it takes to eat all the bananas at our current rate is too fast,
such that t, time, is less than our limit, h, we reduce our range by half,
setting r = k. Now we can select from a slower rate, because we're looking for
the minimum. If we take too much time such that t, time, is greater than our
limit, h, we know we need to speed up the rate, setting l = k + 1.

Eventually the binary search will succeed and r will be the minimum rate at
which we can eat all the bananas within the given time.

The solution is as follows:

from math import ceil

```python
  class Solution:
      def minEatingSpeed(self, piles: List[int], h: int) -> int:
          l, r = 1, max(piles)

          while l < r:
              k, t = (r + l) // 2, 0

              for pile in piles:
                  t += ceil(pile / k)

              if t <= h:
                  r = k
              else:
                  l = k + 1

          return r
```

\_ Time Complexity:

O(n log(m)) - Where m is the maximum number in piles and n is the nummber of
piles. We binary search through a range of (1, m) and operate on each pile
during each step of the search.

\_ Space Complexity:

O(1) - We use constant space to conduct our search.
