---
tags:
  - leetcode
  - tree
  - trees
  - graph
  - graphs
---

<a href="https://leetcode.com/problems/search-suggestions-system/">
1268. Search Suggestions System</a>

We're working with tries, also a tree but the nodes in the data structure are
contsructed differently and for a different purpose. In a trie, the root node is
"", an empty string. All its children are the first character of a word, and the
children of those characters are the succeeding character of word.

This data structure maintains words in tree format, and the leaf will allow us
to construct the full word. This allows us to be able to easily search and
lookup words from our original data set, by following the tree for the
characters we're looking for.

In this particular problem, we're asked to provide search suggestions based on
the characters typed in the input. For each character, we need to provide a list
of 3 words (maximum) that start with the prefix written by the user.

We construct a trie, and we assign a suggestions attribute to each node,
containing a lexicographically sorted list of words with a maximum size of 3.
These words have a prefix matching the current node's path and depth.

Then, for each character in the search word, we traverse the tree and append the
suggestions to our answer array, if the character matches our current node. If
the character doesn't match our current node, we know that the user is typing a
word that isn't in our list of products, so we clear out our children nodes from
the current node and append an empty suggestion list to our answer.

The solution is as follows:

```python
class TrieNode:
    def __init__(self):
        self.children = {}
        self.suggestions = []

class Solution:
    def buildTrie(self, words: List[str]) -> TrieNode:
        root = TrieNode()

        for word in words:
            curr = root

            for char in word:
                if char not in curr.children:
                    curr.children[char] = TrieNode()

                curr = curr.children[char]
                curr.suggestions.append(word)
                curr.suggestions.sort()

                if len(curr.suggestions) > 3:
                    curr.suggestions.pop()

        return root

    def suggestedProducts(
        self, products: List[str], searchWord: str
    ) -> List[List[str]]:
        node, ans = self.buildTrie(products), []

        for char in searchWord:
            if char in node.children:
                node = node.children[char]
                ans.append(node.suggestions)
            else:
                node.children = {}
                ans.append([])

        return ans
```

\_ Time Complexity:

O(m \* n) - We search the entire grid for rotten and fresh oranges.

\_ Space Complexity:

O(m _ n) - We could store all oranges in a set of size m _ n in the worst case.
