---
tags:
  - leetcode
  - tree
  - graph
---

<a href="https://leetcode.com/problems/cheapest-flights-within-k-stops/">
787. Cheapest Flights Within K Stops</a>

Another Dijkstra's algorithm question, which is fun. This time, distance still
matters and will be minimized via the min-heap, however, we're concerned about
the number of stops it takes to reach the destination. We're given a variable,
k, which is the maximum number of stops we can take to reach a given
destination, dst, from a source, src. If we can't reach the destination, we
return -1. If we can before hitting k stops, we return the minimum cost.

Unlike most Dijkstra's algorithm questions, instead of maintaining a distances
array where each index, i, corresponds to a node and keeps track of the minimum
distance, we create a stops array where that keeps track of the minimum number
of stops required to reach node i. This allows us to stop traversing a path in
the algorithm if the number of stops taken so far for a path exceed k, or if the
path is suboptimal in comparison to the known shortest path to the current node.

We conduct our search as usual, updating the amount of stops it takes for a node
as we pop it off of the heap. Of course, if the number of stops for this entry
is greater than the number of stops previously seen for this node, we skip. Same
goes for if the number of stops exceeds k. If we visit the dst node, we
immediately return the current distance - we've found the minimum cost to reach
dst. Otherwise, we push the neighboring nodes into the heap, updating distance
and number of stops.

Eventually we'll find the dst and the minimum cost - if we don't we just return
-1.

The solution is as follows:

from collections import defaultdict from heapq import heappush, heappop

```python
  class Solution:
      def findCheapestPrice(
          self, n: int, flights: List[List[int]], src: int, dst: int, k: int
      ) -> int:
          heap, edges, stops = (
              [(0, src, 0)],
              defaultdict(list),
              [float("inf") for _ in range(n)],
          )

          for u, v, w in flights:
              edges[u].append((v, w))

          while heap:
              curr_dist, u, stop = heappop(heap)

              if stop > stops[u] or stop > k + 1:
                  continue

              stops[u] = stop

              if u == dst:
                  return curr_dist

              for v, w in edges[u]:
                  heappush(heap, (curr_dist + w, v, stop + 1))

          return -1
```

\_ Time Complexity:

O(n + e _ k _ log(e \* k)) - Where n is the number of nodes, e is the number of
edges, and k is the maximum number of stops.

\_ Space Complexity:

O(n + e _ k) - The stops array takes n space, and the heap will take e _ k
elements.
