---
tags:
  - leetcode
  - tree
  - trees
  - graph
  - graphs
---

<a href="https://leetcode.com/problems/snakes-and-ladders/">909. Snakes and
Ladders</a>

Not the regular snakes and ladders game, thankfully, since we can only travel
towards the end of the board. We start at the first square, 1 - from there we
can travel to squares in the range (1, min(1 + 6, n \* n)). If a square we visit
is a ladder or snake, instead of landing on the next square, we land wherever
the ladder or snake takes us - this information is stored within the board.

We solve this problem with BFS, however, we have to do a bit of preprocessing of
the input to make it easy to solve with BFS. We walk the board along its rows
and columns in the order that the numbers are printed - starting from the bottom
left of the board towards the right, then as we go up a level we walk from the
right to the left. We maintain a 1D array with the labels of the board cells
being the indices, and we store row and column for the label in each 1D array
cell.

We maintain a distance array that will be used for our final answer, and conduct
our BFS. At each label we calculate the neighbors, from the range mentioned
earlier, and determine their rows and columns. We check to see if they're a
ladder or snake, updating our destination accordingly. If this destination
hasn't been visited, we update the distance array at this destination with the
steps we've taken so far. Finally, we add this destination to our queue for the
next step.

After completing our BFS, we return the distance array at the last cell of the
board, which will be the length of the shortest path to the end of the board.

The solution is as follows:

```python
class Solution:
    def snakesAndLadders(self, board: List[List[int]]) -> int:
        n = len(board)
        cells = [None] * (n * n + 1)
        columns = list(range(n))
        label = 1

        for row in range(n - 1, -1, -1):
            for col in columns:
                cells[label] = (row, col)
                label += 1

            columns.reverse()

        queue = [1]
        distance = [-1] * (n * n + 1)
        distance[1] = 0

        while queue:
            curr_queue, queue = queue, []

            for node in curr_queue:
                for neighbor in range(node + 1, min(node + 6, n * n) + 1):
                    nrow, ncol = cells[neighbor]
                    destination = (
                        board[nrow][ncol] if board[nrow][ncol] != -1 else neighbor
                    )

                    if distance[destination] == -1:
                        distance[destination] = distance[node] + 1
                        queue.append(destination)

        return distance[n * n]
```

\_ Time Complexity:

O(n \*\* 2) - The complexity of BFS, where n are the edges and n are the nodes.

\_ Space Complexity:

O(n \*_ 2) - We maintain a 1D array of size n _ n to track distance and
transform the board into a 1D array of size n \* n to track the cells.
