---
tags:
  - leetcode
  - arrays
  - strings
---

<a href="https://leetcode.com/problems/car-pooling/">1094. Car Pooling</a>

Difference array or bucket sorting question, very similar to prefix sum
questions. This question format usually provides us with an array of unsorted
sets, we're given a start and end point for some particular value and asked to
find the maximum or find something that violates some constraint.

Bucket sorting involves roughly knowing the size of the input and, in this case,
we know that the furthest destination is 1000, so we can create a difference
table of 1001 - making our space complexity O(1). Otherwise, we would have to
find the max destiniation, which would be O(m + n) time.

With bucket sorting, we place start and end times in buckets, the indices they
correspond to in our difference array. We place passengers at the start time
bucket, and we remove passengers at the end time bucket.

Now, when we traverse from 0 to the end of the diff array, we maintain a prefix
sum of all the passengers who have entered and exited the vehicle. Passengers
will enter the vehicle during their start time, and exit the vehicle during
their end time - because we've accounted for this with bucket sort.

If we ever have too many passengers for the capacity of the vehicle, we'll
violate the constaint of currPassengers > capacity, and we return False.
Otherwise, we'll return True.

The solution is as follows:

```python
class Solution:
    def carPooling(self, trips: List[List[int]], capacity: int) -> bool:
        diff = [0] * 1001

        for numPassengers, start, end in trips:
            diff[start] += numPassengers
            diff[end] -= numPassengers

        currPassengers = 0

        for d in diff:
            currPassengers += d

            if currPassengers > capacity:
                return False

        return True
```

\_ Time Complexity:

O(max(n, 1001)) - Where n is the number of trips, we can either spend most of
our time processing the trips input, or if it's smaller than our diff array, we
can process it in constant time.

\_ Space Complexity:

O(1) - Our diff array will always be size O(1001) - constant.
