---
tags:
  - leetcode
  - linked
  - lists
---

<a href="https://leetcode.com/problems/reverse-linked-list-ii/">92. Reverse
Linked List II</a>

Given a singly linked list and a left and right index, reverse the nodes between
the two indicies and return the modified list. How do we do this?

First we maintain a curr pointer and iteratively move the curr pointer to the
first index, left. While we do this, we maintain a prev pointer to the node
before the left index. This is important because we eventually need to relink
the reversed segment of the linked list.

We create two more pointers, tail and conn. The tail points to curr, as curr
will be the tail of the reversed segment. The conn points to prev, the node that
will complete the connection from the head of the list to the reversed segment.

We conduct our standard linked list reversal for the segment, iterating in the
range between right - left + 1.

Finally, we check to see if the conn pointer is None. If so, we know that prev
was None before the reversal of the linked list segment. Now prev points to the
beginning of the reversed linked list segment. Therefore, we set prev to head.
Otherwise, we set conn.next to prev.

The tail pointer still points to the last node of the reversed linked list
segment. We can now set its .next pointer to curr, as curr now points to the
node after the reversed segment.

The solution is as follows:

```python
  class Solution:
      def reverseBetween(
          self, head: Optional[ListNode], left: int, right: int
      ) -> Optional[ListNode]:
          prev = None
          curr = head
          for i in range(left - 1):
              prev = curr
              curr = curr.next

          tail, conn = curr, prev
          for j in range(right - left + 1):
              next_node = curr.next
              curr.next = prev
              prev = curr
              curr = next_node

          if conn:
              conn.next = prev
          else:
              head = prev
          tail.next = curr
          return head
```

\_ Time Complexity:

O(n) - We traverse all nodes within the linked list.

\_ Space Complexity:

O(1) - We maintain pointers which occupy constant space.
