---
tags:
  - leetcode
  - stack
  - queue
---

<a href="https://leetcode.com/problems/implement-queue-using-stacks/">
232. Implementing Queue using Stacks</a>

We're asked to implement a queue class using stacks. We could just simply use
just one stack and do some Python operations on it to simulate a queue, but that
beats the purpose of this exercise. Realistically, we want to use the stacks the
way the were intended, by only using push and pop operations.

Therefore, we use two stacks. The first stack will be used for all push
operations. The second stack is used to amortize the pop operation. What do I
mean by this? When the second stack is empty, when a pop operation happens, all
the contents of the first stack will be popped off and pushed onto the second
stack. This essentially reverses the order of the contents of the first stack,
allowing us to simulate a queue.

After conducting this operation, we can now return the top of the second stack,
either during a peek operation or a pop operation, returning the first element
in the queue. This is amortized because we won't do this operation again until
the second stack is empty.

The solution is as follows:

class MyQueue: def **init**(self): self.stack1 = [] self.stack2 = []

      def push(self, x: int) -> None:
          self.stack1.append(x)

      def pop(self) -> int:
          self.peek()
          return self.stack2.pop()

      def peek(self) -> int:
          if not self.stack2:
              while self.stack1:
                  self.stack2.append(self.stack1.pop())
          return self.stack2[-1]

      def empty(self) -> bool:
          return not (self.stack1 or self.stack2)

```


_ Time Complexity:

  O(1) - Pushing and popping are amortized operations.

_ Space Complexity:

  O(n) - We store the queue elements in two stacks.





```
